WARP.md, before:

# WARP.md

This file provides guidance to WARP (warp.dev) when working with code in this repository.

## Project Overview

Railhopp is a modern, SEO-optimized railway web application for real-time UK train information. It's a monorepo built with Turborepo, featuring a Next.js 15+ frontend with TypeScript, Tailwind CSS, and a planned backend API. The project focuses heavily on performance, SEO optimization, and real-time data from National Rail APIs.

## Development Environment

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 20+
- PNPM 9+ (required package manager)
- Git

### Common Commands

#### Setup & Installation

```bash
# Install all dependencies
pnpm install

# Copy environment template
cp .env.example .env.local
```

#### Development

```bash
# Start all development servers (includes Next.js with Turbopack)
pnpm dev

# Start specific app only
pnpm --filter web dev
pnpm --filter api dev  # When backend is ready
```

#### Building

```bash
# Build all packages and apps
pnpm build

# Build specific package
pnpm --filter @railhopp/ui build
pnpm --filter web build
```

#### Code Quality

```bash
# Lint all packages
pnpm lint

# Type check all packages
pnpm type-check

# Format code
pnpm format

# Run tests (when available)
pnpm test

# Clean build outputs
pnpm clean
```

#### Package-Specific Operations

```bash
# Build and watch specific package during development
pnpm --filter @railhopp/types dev
pnpm --filter @railhopp/ui dev
pnpm --filter @railhopp/rail-data dev
pnpm --filter @railhopp/database dev

# Test specific package
pnpm --filter @railhopp/rail-data test
```

## Architecture & Structure

### Monorepo Layout

```
railhopp/
├── apps/
│   ├── web/                 # Next.js 15+ frontend (primary app)
│   └── api/                 # Backend API (planned)
├── packages/
│   ├── ui/                  # Shared UI components (Radix UI + Tailwind)
│   ├── types/               # Shared TypeScript definitions
│   ├── rail-data/           # Railway data processing & API clients
│   └── database/            # Supabase schemas & utilities
├── docs/                    # Documentation
└── scripts/                 # Build and deployment scripts
```

### Technology Stack

#### Frontend (apps/web)

- **Framework**: Next.js 15+ with App Router
- **Runtime**: React 19+
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS v4
- **Build**: Turbopack for development, standard Next.js for production
- **UI Components**: Radix UI primitives with custom railway-themed components
- **State**: Zustand + TanStack Query for data fetching
- **Icons**: Lucide React

#### Packages Architecture

- **@railhopp/ui**: Component library built with Radix UI, includes Button, DeparturesBoard, StationSearch, etc.
- **@railhopp/types**: Shared TypeScript types for trains, stations, journeys
- **@railhopp/rail-data**: Data processing utilities for National Rail APIs (Darwin API, Network Rail feeds)
- **@railhopp/database**: Supabase client, schemas, migrations using Drizzle ORM

#### Database & APIs

- **Database**: Supabase (PostgreSQL) with real-time subscriptions
- **APIs**: National Rail Darwin API, Network Rail feeds via STOMP
- **Caching**: Redis (Upstash), multi-layer caching strategy
- **Real-time**: WebSocket connections, Server-Sent Events

### Build System

- **Turborepo**: Handles monorepo builds with dependency graph optimization
- **Package Manager**: PNPM with workspaces
- **TypeScript**: Shared config with path mapping for workspace packages

### Key Files & Configuration

#### Root Configuration

- `turbo.json`: Turborepo pipeline configuration
- `tsconfig.json`: Root TypeScript config with workspace path mapping
- `package.json`: Workspace definition and root scripts

#### Web App (apps/web)

- `next.config.ts`: Next.js configuration (minimal, defaults to Turbo)
- `eslint.config.mjs`: ESLint flat config with Next.js rules
- `tsconfig.json`: App-specific TypeScript config
- `src/app/layout.tsx`: Root layout with comprehensive SEO meta tags

## Development Patterns

### Package Dependencies

- Use workspace references (`workspace:*`) for internal packages
- All packages export through `./dist/index.js` with TypeScript declarations
- UI package also exports `./styles.css` for Tailwind components

### SEO & Performance Focus

- All public pages use SSR for SEO
- Comprehensive meta tags in `layout.tsx` with Open Graph and Twitter Cards
- Image optimization and WebP/AVIF support planned
- Multi-layer caching strategy (CDN, API, Database, Browser)
- Core Web Vitals optimization is a priority

### Data Flow

- Real-time train data from National Rail Darwin API
- Historical and static data from Network Rail feeds
- STOMP client for live feed subscriptions
- Optimistic UI updates with TanStack Query

### Component Architecture

- Railway-themed components in `@railhopp/ui`
- Built with Radix UI primitives for accessibility
- Tailwind CSS for styling with railway-specific design system
- Components include: DeparturesBoard, StationSearch, Platform indicators, Status badges

### Testing Strategy

- Jest for `@railhopp/rail-data` package testing
- Component testing planned for UI package
- Integration tests for API endpoints when backend is built

## Environment Variables

### Required for Development

```bash
# Supabase
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=
SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY=

# National Rail APIs
DARWIN_API_KEY=
NETWORK_RAIL_USERNAME=
NETWORK_RAIL_PASSWORD=

# Application
NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL=http://localhost:3000
```

### Production Additional

```bash
# Redis (Upstash)
REDIS_URL=
REDIS_TOKEN=

# Application
NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL=https://railhopp.com
```

## Deployment

### Vercel (Recommended)

- Optimized for Next.js deployment
- Automatic builds on push to main branch
- Edge caching for static assets
- Environment variables configured in Vercel dashboard

```bash
# Deploy commands
npx vercel        # Development deployment
npx vercel --prod # Production deployment
```

## Current Status & Roadmap

### Completed (Phase 1)

- [x] Monorepo setup with Turborepo
- [x] Next.js 15+ app with TypeScript
- [x] SEO-optimized homepage and layout
- [x] Package structure and workspace configuration
- [x] Development tooling (ESLint, Prettier, TypeScript)

### In Progress (Phase 2)

- [ ] Database schema design and Supabase integration
- [ ] National Rail API integration in `@railhopp/rail-data`
- [ ] Network Rail feed connections with STOMP
- [ ] Real-time data pipeline

### Planned Features

- Station-specific pages (2,500+ UK stations)
- Live departure boards with real-time updates
- Journey planner interface
- Interactive maps with live train positions
- Progressive Web App capabilities
- User accounts and personalized alerts

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **PNPM not found**: Ensure PNPM 9+ is installed globally
2. **TypeScript path errors**: Run `pnpm type-check` to verify workspace references
3. **Build failures**: Check `turbo.json` pipeline dependencies and run `pnpm clean` first
4. **Module resolution issues**: Verify package exports in individual `package.json` files

### Development Tips

- Use `pnpm --filter <package>` to run commands on specific packages
- Build packages in dependency order: types → ui/rail-data/database → web
- Next.js uses Turbopack in dev mode for faster builds
- All packages support `dev` (watch mode) and `build` scripts
- The project emphasizes performance and SEO, so consider these in all implementations

## Important Notes

- This is a railway-focused application with specific domain knowledge requirements
- SEO optimization is critical - all public pages must be server-side rendered
- Real-time data accuracy is essential for user trust
- The UI should reflect railway industry standards and terminology
- Performance targets are aggressive due to competitive landscape
- GDPR compliance required for UK user base

## Warp helpers & scripts

These helpers are designed to be runnable in Warp. Use the run button or press CMD/CTRL-Enter on any block.

### Start development (feeds initialized by the app)

```bash
bin/start_feeds.sh --port 3003
```

### Test Network Rail feeds

```bash
bin/fetch_test_data.sh --feed TRAIN_MOVEMENTS --since today
```

### API lint (apps/web)

```bash
pnpm --filter web run lint:api
```

### Indexing

- The .warpindexingignore file excludes large, generated, and secret files from Warp AI context.

Commit message:

feat: Complete production deployment setup with Darwin broker and web app
Major improvements:
- Darwin broker: Fix ES module imports, deploy to Fly.io with Pub/Sub integration
- Web app: Remove SOAP dependencies, implement comprehensive API caching/rate limiting
- Build system: Fix ESLint config, disable standalone output for Windows compatibility
- Dockerfile: Optimize for pnpm monorepo with proper Next.js binary resolution
- Stations: Add PopularStations component and detailed station pages
- Monitoring: Configure Sentry integration for production observability
- Documentation: Update setup guides and production checklists

All APIs now use real services (Darwin, Network Rail, Knowledge Station) with
Redis caching and memory fallback. Ready for production deployment once
Fly.io network issues resolve.

WARP.md, after:

# WARP.md

This file provides guidance to WARP (warp.dev) when working with code in this repository.

## Project Overview

Railhopp is a modern, SEO-optimized railway web application for real-time UK train information. It's a monorepo built with Turborepo, featuring a Next.js 15+ frontend with TypeScript, Tailwind CSS, and a planned backend API. The project focuses heavily on performance, SEO optimization, and real-time data from National Rail APIs.

## Development Environment

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 20+
- PNPM 9+ (required package manager)
- Git

### Common Commands

#### Setup & Installation

```bash
# Install all dependencies
pnpm install

# Copy environment template
cp .env.example .env.local
```

#### Development

```bash
# Start all development servers (includes Next.js with Turbopack)
pnpm dev

# Start specific app only
pnpm --filter web dev
pnpm --filter api dev  # When backend is ready
```

#### Building

```bash
# Build all packages and apps
pnpm build

# Build specific package
pnpm --filter @railhopp/ui build
pnpm --filter web build
```

#### Code Quality

```bash
# Lint all packages
pnpm lint

# Type check all packages
pnpm type-check

# Format code
pnpm format

# Run tests (when available)
pnpm test

# Clean build outputs
pnpm clean
```

#### Package-Specific Operations

```bash
# Build and watch specific package during development
pnpm --filter @railhopp/types dev
pnpm --filter @railhopp/ui dev
pnpm --filter @railhopp/rail-data dev
pnpm --filter @railhopp/database dev

# Test specific package
pnpm --filter @railhopp/rail-data test
```

## Architecture & Structure

### Monorepo Layout

```
railhopp/
├── apps/
│   ├── web/                 # Next.js 15+ frontend (primary app)
│   └── api/                 # Backend API (planned)
├── packages/
│   ├── ui/                  # Shared UI components (Radix UI + Tailwind)
│   ├── types/               # Shared TypeScript definitions
│   ├── rail-data/           # Railway data processing & API clients
│   └── database/            # Supabase schemas & utilities
├── docs/                    # Documentation
└── scripts/                 # Build and deployment scripts
```

### Technology Stack

#### Frontend (apps/web)

- **Framework**: Next.js 15+ with App Router
- **Runtime**: React 19+
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS v4
- **Build**: Turbopack for development, standard Next.js for production
- **UI Components**: Radix UI primitives with custom railway-themed components
- **State**: Zustand + TanStack Query for data fetching
- **Icons**: Lucide React

#### Packages Architecture

- **@railhopp/ui**: Component library built with Radix UI, includes Button, DeparturesBoard, StationSearch, etc.
- **@railhopp/types**: Shared TypeScript types for trains, stations, journeys
- **@railhopp/rail-data**: Data processing utilities for National Rail APIs (Darwin API, Network Rail feeds)
- **@railhopp/database**: Supabase client, schemas, migrations using Drizzle ORM

#### Database & APIs

- **Database**: Supabase (PostgreSQL) with real-time subscriptions
- **APIs**: National Rail Darwin API, Network Rail feeds via STOMP
- **Caching**: Redis (Upstash), multi-layer caching strategy
- **Real-time**: WebSocket connections, Server-Sent Events

### Build System

- **Turborepo**: Handles monorepo builds with dependency graph optimization
- **Package Manager**: PNPM with workspaces
- **TypeScript**: Shared config with path mapping for workspace packages

### Key Files & Configuration

#### Root Configuration

- `turbo.json`: Turborepo pipeline configuration
- `tsconfig.json`: Root TypeScript config with workspace path mapping
- `package.json`: Workspace definition and root scripts

#### Web App (apps/web)

- `next.config.ts`: Next.js configuration (minimal, defaults to Turbo)
- `eslint.config.mjs`: ESLint flat config with Next.js rules
- `tsconfig.json`: App-specific TypeScript config
- `src/app/layout.tsx`: Root layout with comprehensive SEO meta tags

## Development Patterns

### Package Dependencies

- Use workspace references (`workspace:*`) for internal packages
- All packages export through `./dist/index.js` with TypeScript declarations
- UI package also exports `./styles.css` for Tailwind components

### SEO & Performance Focus

- All public pages use SSR for SEO
- Comprehensive meta tags in `layout.tsx` with Open Graph and Twitter Cards
- Image optimization and WebP/AVIF support planned
- Multi-layer caching strategy (CDN, API, Database, Browser)
- Core Web Vitals optimization is a priority

### Data Flow

- Real-time train data from National Rail Darwin API
- Historical and static data from Network Rail feeds
- STOMP client for live feed subscriptions
- Optimistic UI updates with TanStack Query

### Component Architecture

- Railway-themed components in `@railhopp/ui`
- Built with Radix UI primitives for accessibility
- Tailwind CSS for styling with railway-specific design system
- Components include: DeparturesBoard, StationSearch, Platform indicators, Status badges

### Testing Strategy

- Jest for `@railhopp/rail-data` package testing
- Component testing planned for UI package
- Integration tests for API endpoints when backend is built

## Environment Variables

### Required for Development

```bash
# Supabase
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=
SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY=

# National Rail APIs
DARWIN_API_KEY=
NETWORK_RAIL_USERNAME=
NETWORK_RAIL_PASSWORD=

# Application
NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL=http://localhost:3000
```

### Production Additional

```bash
# Redis (Upstash)
REDIS_URL=
REDIS_TOKEN=

# Application
NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL=https://railhopp.com
```

## Deployment

### Vercel (Recommended)

- Optimized for Next.js deployment
- Automatic builds on push to main branch
- Edge caching for static assets
- Environment variables configured in Vercel dashboard

```bash
# Deploy commands
npx vercel        # Development deployment
npx vercel --prod # Production deployment
```

## Current Status & Roadmap

### Live updates (Kafka-based Pub/Sub)

- UI components (LiveIndicator, EnhancedJourneyPlanner, Departures page) subscribe to `/api/darwin/kafka/stream` for SSE updates.
- This stream is backed by the Darwin Pub/Sub (Kafka) topic from the Rail Data Marketplace (Confluent Cloud).
- Configure via env:
  - DARWIN_KAFKA_BROKERS
  - DARWIN_KAFKA_USERNAME / DARWIN_KAFKA_PASSWORD
  - DARWIN_KAFKA_TOPIC
  - DARWIN_KAFKA_GROUP_ID (optional)
  - DARWIN_KAFKA_SASL_MECHANISM (default: plain)
  - DARWIN_KAFKA_SSL (default: true)
- Do not remove Kafka endpoints; Kafka is the canonical Pub/Sub path.

### Completed (Phase 1)

- [x] Monorepo setup with Turborepo
- [x] Next.js 15+ app with TypeScript
- [x] SEO-optimized homepage and layout
- [x] Package structure and workspace configuration
- [x] Development tooling (ESLint, Prettier, TypeScript)

### In Progress (Phase 2)

- [ ] Database schema design and Supabase integration
- [ ] National Rail API integration in `@railhopp/rail-data`
- [ ] Network Rail feed connections with STOMP
- [ ] Real-time data pipeline

### Planned Features

- Station-specific pages (2,500+ UK stations)
- Live departure boards with real-time updates
- Journey planner interface
- Interactive maps with live train positions
- Progressive Web App capabilities
- User accounts and personalized alerts

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **PNPM not found**: Ensure PNPM 9+ is installed globally
2. **TypeScript path errors**: Run `pnpm type-check` to verify workspace references
3. **Build failures**: Check `turbo.json` pipeline dependencies and run `pnpm clean` first
4. **Module resolution issues**: Verify package exports in individual `package.json` files

### Development Tips

- Use `pnpm --filter <package>` to run commands on specific packages
- Build packages in dependency order: types → ui/rail-data/database → web
- Next.js uses Turbopack in dev mode for faster builds
- All packages support `dev` (watch mode) and `build` scripts
- The project emphasizes performance and SEO, so consider these in all implementations

## Important Notes

- This is a railway-focused application with specific domain knowledge requirements
- SEO optimization is critical - all public pages must be server-side rendered
- Real-time data accuracy is essential for user trust
- The UI should reflect railway industry standards and terminology
- Performance targets are aggressive due to competitive landscape
- GDPR compliance required for UK user base

## Warp helpers & scripts

These helpers are designed to be runnable in Warp. Use the run button or press CMD/CTRL-Enter on any block.

### Start development (feeds initialized by the app)

```bash
bin/start_feeds.sh --port 3003
```

### Test Network Rail feeds

```bash
bin/fetch_test_data.sh --feed TRAIN_MOVEMENTS --since today
```

### API lint (apps/web)

```bash
pnpm --filter web run lint:api
```

### Indexing

- The .warpindexingignore file excludes large, generated, and secret files from Warp AI context.
