docs/RAIL_APIS_INTEGRATION.md, before:

# UK Rail APIs - Full Integration Guide

## Available UK Rail Data APIs

### 🚂 Primary Data Sources

#### 1. Darwin API (National Rail)

- **What**: Official UK National Rail departure/arrival data
- **Data**: Live departures, arrivals, delays, cancellations
- **Cost**: Free
- **Registration**: https://www.nationalrail.co.uk/100296.aspx
- **Status**: ✅ Integrated via Pub/Sub broker

#### 2. RTT.io (Real Time Trains)

- **What**: Enhanced real-time train data with historical information
- **Data**: Live positions, detailed calling points, historical performance
- **Cost**: Free tier available, paid for high volume
- **Registration**: https://www.realtimetrains.co.uk/api
- **API**: REST API with JSON responses
- **Status**: 🔧 To be integrated as "Knowledge Station"

#### 3. Network Rail Open Data Portal

- **What**: Official Network Rail data feeds
- **Data**: Train movements, schedule data, infrastructure info
- **Cost**: Free registration required
- **Registration**: https://www.networkrail.co.uk/who-we-are/transparency-and-ethics/transparency/open-data-feeds/
- **Feeds**: STOMP message feeds, historical data
- **Status**: 📋 Planned integration

#### 4. Trainline Partner API

- **What**: Commercial train booking and timetable data
- **Data**: Fares, journey planning, booking capabilities
- **Cost**: Commercial partnership required
- **Status**: 🔮 Future consideration

#### 5. TransportAPI

- **What**: Multi-modal transport data including rail
- **Data**: Journey planning, departures, disruptions
- **Cost**: Free tier, paid plans available
- **Registration**: https://www.transportapi.com/
- **Status**: 📋 Planned integration

### 🌐 Enhanced Data Sources

#### 6. Rail Delivery Group APIs

- **What**: Industry-standard rail data
- **Data**: Fares, journey planning, station facilities
- **Cost**: Commercial licensing
- **Status**: 🔮 Future consideration

#### 7. OpenRailData

- **What**: Community-driven rail data project
- **Data**: Open source train data, crowd-sourced info
- **Cost**: Free
- **Status**: 📋 Planned integration

## Integration Architecture

```
┌─────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐
│   Darwin API    │    │    RTT.io       │    │  Network Rail   │
│   (Primary)     │    │ (Enhancement)   │    │  (Real-time)    │
└─────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘
         │                       │                       │
         └───────────────────────┼───────────────────────┘
                                 │
                    ┌─────────────────┐
                    │  Multi-API      │
                    │  Aggregator     │
                    │  Service        │
                    └─────────────────┘
                                 │
                    ┌─────────────────┐
                    │  Unified API    │
                    │  Endpoints      │
                    └─────────────────┘
```

## Implementation Plan

### Phase 1: Foundation ✅

- [x] Darwin API (National Rail) - Primary data source
- [x] Basic unified service architecture
- [x] Error handling and fallbacks

### Phase 2: Enhanced Integration 🔧

- [ ] RTT.io integration (Real Time Trains)
- [ ] Network Rail Open Data feeds
- [ ] TransportAPI integration
- [ ] Multi-API data validation

### Phase 3: Advanced Features 📋

- [ ] Historical data analysis
- [ ] Performance metrics
- [ ] Predictive delays
- [ ] Journey planning optimization

## API Comparison Matrix

| Feature              | Darwin | RTT.io | Network Rail | TransportAPI |
| -------------------- | ------ | ------ | ------------ | ------------ |
| Live Departures      | ✅     | ✅     | ✅           | ✅           |
| Live Arrivals        | ✅     | ✅     | ✅           | ✅           |
| Delays/Cancellations | ✅     | ✅     | ✅           | ✅           |
| Real-time Position   | ❌     | ✅     | ✅           | ✅           |
| Historical Data      | ❌     | ✅     | ✅           | ❌           |
| Journey Planning     | ❌     | ❌     | ❌           | ✅           |
| Station Facilities   | ❌     | ✅     | ✅           | ✅           |
| Disruption Info      | Basic  | ✅     | ✅           | ✅           |
| Performance Stats    | ❌     | ✅     | ✅           | ❌           |

## Data Prioritization Strategy

### Primary Data (Darwin)

- Live departure/arrival times
- Basic service information
- Platform assignments

### Enhancement Data (RTT.io)

- Detailed calling points
- Live train positions
- Historical performance
- Enhanced disruption details

### Real-time Data (Network Rail)

- Train movement messages
- Infrastructure status
- Signal box data
- Track occupation

### Journey Data (TransportAPI)

- Multi-modal routing
- Walking connections
- Alternative transport

## Benefits of Full Integration

### For Users

- **More Accurate Data**: Cross-validation between sources
- **Enhanced Information**: Station facilities, historical performance
- **Better Predictions**: Multiple data points for delay estimation
- **Comprehensive Coverage**: Backup when one API fails

### For Developers

- **Redundancy**: Multiple fallback options
- **Rich Dataset**: Comprehensive rail information
- **Future-Proof**: Easy to add new APIs
- **Performance**: Load balancing across APIs

## Getting Started

1. **RTT.io Setup**:

   ```bash
   # Register at https://www.realtimetrains.co.uk/api
   # Add to .env.local:
   RTT_API_URL=https://api.rtt.io/api/v1
   RTT_API_KEY=your_rtt_api_key
   ```

2. **Network Rail Setup**:

   ```bash
   # Register at Network Rail Open Data Portal
   # Add to .env.local:
   NETWORK_RAIL_USERNAME=your_username
   NETWORK_RAIL_PASSWORD=your_password
   NETWORK_RAIL_STOMP_URL=stomp.networkrail.co.uk
   ```

3. **TransportAPI Setup**:
   ```bash
   # Register at https://www.transportapi.com/
   # Add to .env.local:
   TRANSPORT_API_URL=https://transportapi.com/v3
   TRANSPORT_API_ID=your_app_id
   TRANSPORT_API_KEY=your_app_key
   ```

## Next Steps

1. Configure RTT.io as your "Knowledge Station" API
2. Set up Network Rail feeds for real-time data
3. Add TransportAPI for journey planning
4. Implement data validation and conflict resolution
5. Create comprehensive testing suite
6. Monitor performance and reliability

This will give you the most comprehensive UK rail data integration available!

Commit message:

feat: Complete production deployment setup with Darwin broker and web app
Major improvements:
- Darwin broker: Fix ES module imports, deploy to Fly.io with Pub/Sub integration
- Web app: Remove SOAP dependencies, implement comprehensive API caching/rate limiting
- Build system: Fix ESLint config, disable standalone output for Windows compatibility
- Dockerfile: Optimize for pnpm monorepo with proper Next.js binary resolution
- Stations: Add PopularStations component and detailed station pages
- Monitoring: Configure Sentry integration for production observability
- Documentation: Update setup guides and production checklists

All APIs now use real services (Darwin, Network Rail, Knowledge Station) with
Redis caching and memory fallback. Ready for production deployment once
Fly.io network issues resolve.

docs/RAIL_APIS_INTEGRATION.md, after:

# UK Rail APIs - Full Integration Guide

Note: Darwin is integrated via Pub/Sub broker only. Legacy SOAP/STOMP clients have been removed for a lighter, faster app. No mock data fallbacks are used — real APIs must be configured.

## Available UK Rail Data APIs

### 🚂 Primary Data Sources

#### 1. Darwin API (National Rail)

- **What**: Official UK National Rail departure/arrival data
- **Data**: Live departures, arrivals, delays, cancellations
- **Cost**: Free
- **Registration**: https://www.nationalrail.co.uk/100296.aspx
- **Status**: ✅ Integrated via Pub/Sub broker

#### 2. RTT.io (Real Time Trains)

- **What**: Enhanced real-time train data with historical information
- **Data**: Live positions, detailed calling points, historical performance
- **Cost**: Free tier available, paid for high volume
- **Registration**: https://www.realtimetrains.co.uk/api
- **API**: REST API with JSON responses
- **Status**: 🔧 To be integrated as "Knowledge Station"

#### 3. Network Rail Open Data Portal

- **What**: Official Network Rail data feeds
- **Data**: Train movements, schedule data, infrastructure info
- **Cost**: Free registration required
- **Registration**: https://www.networkrail.co.uk/who-we-are/transparency-and-ethics/transparency/open-data-feeds/
- **Feeds**: STOMP message feeds, historical data
- **Status**: 📋 Planned integration

#### 4. Trainline Partner API

- **What**: Commercial train booking and timetable data
- **Data**: Fares, journey planning, booking capabilities
- **Cost**: Commercial partnership required
- **Status**: 🔮 Future consideration

#### 5. TransportAPI

- **What**: Multi-modal transport data including rail
- **Data**: Journey planning, departures, disruptions
- **Cost**: Free tier, paid plans available
- **Registration**: https://www.transportapi.com/
- **Status**: 📋 Planned integration

### 🌐 Enhanced Data Sources

#### 6. Rail Delivery Group APIs

- **What**: Industry-standard rail data
- **Data**: Fares, journey planning, station facilities
- **Cost**: Commercial licensing
- **Status**: 🔮 Future consideration

#### 7. OpenRailData

- **What**: Community-driven rail data project
- **Data**: Open source train data, crowd-sourced info
- **Cost**: Free
- **Status**: 📋 Planned integration

## Integration Architecture

```
┌─────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐
│   Darwin API    │    │    RTT.io       │    │  Network Rail   │
│   (Primary)     │    │ (Enhancement)   │    │  (Real-time)    │
└─────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘
         │                       │                       │
         └───────────────────────┼───────────────────────┘
                                 │
                    ┌─────────────────┐
                    │  Multi-API      │
                    │  Aggregator     │
                    │  Service        │
                    └─────────────────┘
                                 │
                    ┌─────────────────┐
                    │  Unified API    │
                    │  Endpoints      │
                    └─────────────────┘
```

## Implementation Plan

### Phase 1: Foundation ✅

- [x] Darwin API (National Rail) - Primary data source
- [x] Basic unified service architecture
- [x] Error handling and fallbacks

### Phase 2: Enhanced Integration 🔧

- [ ] RTT.io integration (Real Time Trains)
- [ ] Network Rail Open Data feeds
- [ ] TransportAPI integration
- [ ] Multi-API data validation

### Phase 3: Advanced Features 📋

- [ ] Historical data analysis
- [ ] Performance metrics
- [ ] Predictive delays
- [ ] Journey planning optimization

## API Comparison Matrix

| Feature              | Darwin | RTT.io | Network Rail | TransportAPI |
| -------------------- | ------ | ------ | ------------ | ------------ |
| Live Departures      | ✅     | ✅     | ✅           | ✅           |
| Live Arrivals        | ✅     | ✅     | ✅           | ✅           |
| Delays/Cancellations | ✅     | ✅     | ✅           | ✅           |
| Real-time Position   | ❌     | ✅     | ✅           | ✅           |
| Historical Data      | ❌     | ✅     | ✅           | ❌           |
| Journey Planning     | ❌     | ❌     | ❌           | ✅           |
| Station Facilities   | ❌     | ✅     | ✅           | ✅           |
| Disruption Info      | Basic  | ✅     | ✅           | ✅           |
| Performance Stats    | ❌     | ✅     | ✅           | ❌           |

## Data Prioritization Strategy

### Primary Data (Darwin)

- Live departure/arrival times
- Basic service information
- Platform assignments

### Enhancement Data (RTT.io)

- Detailed calling points
- Live train positions
- Historical performance
- Enhanced disruption details

### Real-time Data (Network Rail)

- Train movement messages
- Infrastructure status
- Signal box data
- Track occupation

### Journey Data (TransportAPI)

- Multi-modal routing
- Walking connections
- Alternative transport

## Benefits of Full Integration

### For Users

- **More Accurate Data**: Cross-validation between sources
- **Enhanced Information**: Station facilities, historical performance
- **Better Predictions**: Multiple data points for delay estimation
- **Comprehensive Coverage**: Backup when one API fails

### For Developers

- **Redundancy**: Multiple fallback options
- **Rich Dataset**: Comprehensive rail information
- **Future-Proof**: Easy to add new APIs
- **Performance**: Load balancing across APIs

## Getting Started

1. **RTT.io Setup**:

   ```bash
   # Register at https://www.realtimetrains.co.uk/api
   # Add to .env.local:
   RTT_API_URL=https://api.rtt.io/api/v1
   RTT_API_KEY=your_rtt_api_key
   ```

2. **Network Rail Setup**:

   ```bash
   # Register at Network Rail Open Data Portal
   # Add to .env.local:
   NETWORK_RAIL_USERNAME=your_username
   NETWORK_RAIL_PASSWORD=your_password
   NETWORK_RAIL_STOMP_URL=stomp.networkrail.co.uk
   ```

3. **TransportAPI Setup**:
   ```bash
   # Register at https://www.transportapi.com/
   # Add to .env.local:
   TRANSPORT_API_URL=https://transportapi.com/v3
   TRANSPORT_API_ID=your_app_id
   TRANSPORT_API_KEY=your_app_key
   ```

## Next Steps

1. Configure RTT.io as your "Knowledge Station" API
2. Set up Network Rail feeds for real-time data
3. Add TransportAPI for journey planning
4. Implement data validation and conflict resolution
5. Create comprehensive testing suite
6. Monitor performance and reliability

This will give you the most comprehensive UK rail data integration available!
